= Appleseed

Appleseed provides a generator for creating a new web site project with Rails 3, adding things
like HAML and Compass to the new project, creating a Git repository for the new project, pushing
that repository to GitHub, and then deploying the site to Heroku.  All with one command.

This utility is designed to assist graphic designers in rapidly creating new web sites, for
high-volume web shops.  A graphic designer can create a site, push the code to GitHub, and deploy
the site to Heroku without the assistance of a developer.  Then a developer can easily join the
project to build out the back-end and assist the graphic designer with the front-end.

= Usage

== Step 1: Install Appleseed

Open a Terminal window and copy the following command into the window:

  gem install appleseed

== Step 2: Generate Web Application Project

In that same terminal, go to your local projects folder:

  cd ~/projects
  
Then generate a new project by giving Appleseed the name of your new project:

  appleseed my-new-rails-app

Appleseed will create the following:

* A Rails 3 web application project in ~/projects/my-new-rails-app
* A GitHub repository at git@github.com:[you]/my-new-rails-app.git
* A Heroku app at http://my-new-rails-app.heroku.com

== Step 3: Run The Web Site

Your new web application is already running on Heroku.  But for you to make changes, you'll have
to be able to run the web site on your local computer.  You might want to open a new tab in your
Terminal window for the server.  Then change to the new project folder in your Terminal window:

  cd ~/projects/my-new-rails-app
  
Then run the Rails server with:

  rails server
  
Then go to http://localhost:3000 in a web browser, and you should see your new web site.

== Step 4: Make Changes

After you make changes to your web site project, use these Terminal commands to push the changes
to GitHub and Heroku:

  git add .
  git commit -m "Update."
  git push github master
  git push heroku master

If the "git push" operation produces an error, then it probably means that somebody else has made
a change to the same web site and you need to merge your update with their update before you can
push your update.  Do this:

  git pull github master

Then after Git pulls the other person's update and merges it with your update, proceed with the
"git push github master", above.

If Git reports that there has been a conflict, then commit the conflict and push it to GitHub,
but do NOT push to Heroku:

  git add .
  git commit -m "Conflict."
  git push github master

= Final Product

Appleseed generates a web application that's more than just the default generated Rails 3 template.
Instead of just a default working Rails application, you also get a default ("root") controller
and a root route to a home page.  You get a layout based on HAML, and the Blueprint CSS framework
provided by Compass.  You get the RSpec and Cucumber testing frameworks and sample tests.  The
final product is ready for new HTML/CSS files from graphic designers.

The final product does NOT contain any database models, or an administrative back-end.  It only
includes a default controller so that graphic designers can easily add HTML files.

= Options

== --no-github

You can use the --no-github option to tell Appleseed NOT to create a new project at GitHub.

== --no-heroku

You can use the --no-heroku option to tell Appleseed NOT to deploy your new web application to Heroku.

== --template

By default, the template in http://github.com/endymion/appleseed/raw/master/templates/default.rb
will be applied to the new project.  You can tell Appleseed to use your own custom template with
the --template option.  For example:

  appleseed --template ~/templates/my-template.txt new-web-application

A simple way to customize the Rails template that Appleseed uses is to fork the Appleseed project
on GitHub and then edit the lib/appleseed/generator.rb file to use your forked project's
default template URL instead of http://github.com/endymion/appleseed/raw/master/templates/default.rb

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Ryan Alyn Porter. See LICENSE for details.
